[Music]
hello everyone and welcome to this meta
product manager mock interview today we
are doing a analytical thinking question
and with me is a former meta product
manager or Facebook product manager
um he's also a coach on our platform and
I'm really happy that he can join us
today to be my candidate it's Damian how
you doing Damien hey Tom how's it going
uh my name is Damian Peters I'm a former
meta at the time Facebook product
manager I was there uh for around three
and a half years and worked on location
products along with advertised
measurement and really happy to work
through this Mark with you yeah thanks
for being with us today
um if you're ready let's crack straight
straight on with a question it's a
analytical thinking question it's a it's
a metric change question
and uh let's get into it sounds great so
okay the question I want to ask you is
Instagram news feed engagement drops 10
let's imagine that I'm your data
scientist how can we discover what's
happened
so great question
um when there are large metric drops
like this it's uh can always be really
be devastating and confusing to the PM
to understand how to solve this and and
come up with this uh come up with a
solution here
uh one thing I wanted to start with is
understand a little bit more what we
mean when we say engagement across
Instagram are we talking about time
spent or likes comments uh shares
um messages things along those lines
sure we're talking about basically a
drop-in time spent
um so related metrics such as likes
comment shares they all went down as
well
um but then outside of the feed related
metrics there wasn't a big drop
okay great now looking a little bit
deeper into the metrics uh thinking
through time spent we also have uh other
feed you know directly feed related
things like likes uh comments shares
saves uh then we also have messaging
in-app messaging messaging between
stories
uh group chats things like that uh did
we see a drop in any particular metric
significantly harder any group of
metrics
no so just the ones um just the ones
kind of related to to the time spent on
the feed so um things like messages and
and things unrelated to that they didn't
see a significant drop no okay and then
did we see a big drop in terms of
specific types of content that people
engage within the feed for example uh
image post versus uh Instagram Stories
versus Instagram reels
um no no change there okay sounds great
all right so it sounds like including
um we saw a drop in in we saw a 10 drop
in engagement it's primarily limited to
the feed itself and actions uh
surrounding the feed with time spent
taking the the biggest hit it sounds
like out of that
yep absolutely that's right
in any metric change question it's very
important to start off by carefully
clarifying the terms of the problem here
engagement can mean different things in
different products and contexts so it's
crucial to understand exactly what type
of Engagement we're looking at if the
interview is thinking about time spent
and you're thinking about likes you'll
get into trouble Damien does this very
well asking the right questions to get a
more accurate picture of the problem he
should probably also have asked about
the time period did the drop in
engagement happen over one day or one
week for example
okay so with looking when um
investigating a metrics change I like to
think at at a high level with different
buckets and different areas of where you
know different causes and different
buckets and then kind of go through
systematically the different buckets and
see if we can see some interesting data
or trends that would give us some
insight there if that sounds good
yep sounds good okay uh so I want to
start with thinking through three
different buckets
um potential changes that are internal
to uh to meta things that we did that
would cause a change like this or cause
an error in reporting or analytics I
also want to think about external
changes that would have come from the
competitor or the market changes in
uh taste or a competitor launching a
different a similar product that would
take away users then lastly I like to
think about kind of active gods or acts
of God or external factors that come
from the environment such as
um a change in the uh mobile ecosystem a
power outage uh things along those lines
if that sounds good
I think I'll start with some of the
internal changes to see if we can see if
there's any data or anything interesting
there
okay sounds good uh so one is did we see
a drop in other meta products so was
this did we see a drop in engagement
across Facebook and WhatsApp or is this
uh isolated to Instagram
uh no it was isolated to Instagram yeah
okay did we release a new version of
Instagram at the time we um any major UI
updates a brand new app
no nothing like that all right uh when
we look at the data in the reporting are
we seeing any internal errors any spikes
and Bug reports or Sev or anything like
that no nothing okay
um do we have any reports internally
from any other teams where they saw
either any issues in data reporting or
any other areas or back-end changes that
may have caused some issues no it's a
it's a fair question but uh no we don't
have any any reports like that okay all
right good to know so it sounds like I
think we can kind of conclude that it
sounds like there wasn't an internal
change since we didn't make any big
updates
um the impact does seem to be localized
to feed on Instagram and we don't have
any reports or any signs that there were
any other internal changes or problems
that's correct yeah okay sounds good all
right now moving on to external changes
caused by competitors or the the
industry of the market itself
um were there any major announcements
that we
um
see or any tracking that we have on our
competitor tracking in terms of other
apps where we'd see a large increase or
movement of users
no we uh we checked them and we didn't
see anything significant there okay and
were there um did we see I think we
discussed but there weren't um any drops
across uh WhatsApp for example or
um uh Facebook in terms of similar fee
type products where broadly speaking
people are just not interested in feeds
anymore or things like that no I know no
we checked in with uh with uh with our
colleagues on those teams and they they
didn't have anything there okay nothing
to report okay and um just thinking
through I guess images versus video
since they're consumed in um did we see
uh any large drastic difference between
uh video consumption or stories
consumption
um
but let's just say normal fee
consumption versus stories
um let's say we did we did see stories
um story saw the biggest truck drop in
in time spent yeah so the biggest drop
was in stories okay that's interesting
all right so looking thinking a little
bit more about the external signs and
the signals that we can get it sounds
like there was a change like stories
were impacted more but it doesn't
necessarily seem as if we lost all our
stories to a competitor immediately or
anything drastic like that
that's correct yeah okay now looking at
environmental thinking outside of just
competitors and then internal to
Facebook uh have we do we see a country
um a specific country or region or state
or
um a drop the dropping more significant
there than anywhere else
um yeah so the drop was most significant
in the in the United States but it was
also noticeable worldwide okay great now
thinking about seasonality
um have we seen this uh I'm imagining
this this drop is out of the norm at 10
and it's not something that we see
annually regularly at this time of year
yeah absolutely yeah it's not something
we'd expect to see at this time of year
okay now thinking about
um uh more of the metrics in in terms of
how users engage with this and if there
are external factors with causes did we
see a change
um in uh content production
um that that would have caused this
on average no but some accounts did see
a big drop
okay that's really interesting
um is there uh any particular type of
accounts or any any accounts um or was
there any commonality across the
accounts that we saw uh the large drop
um yet uh they tended to be the the
larger accounts
um
okay but the it's a okay so that's
interesting because just the large
accounts shouldn't you know impact
consumption enough to drop the overall
metric but it sounds like something
something there is causing issue
um I'm now thinking a little bit about
how you know any change in content
production would potentially impact
consumption and if there's any link
there
when it comes to
um the actual feed experience did we see
uh were people having the same kind of
quality of Feed in terms of the amount
of content available to them or
um uh the you know checking to see if
they were running out of content any any
any quicker than normal
yeah that's a good question so yes
um people did have less fewer items to
view
um on their feed so there was there was
a reduction in that okay
um but you did mention that content
production overall we didn't see a huge
shift there right overall overall it
didn't it didn't drop significantly yeah
okay so it sounds like there was a
larger impact on stories
um there's overall drop in time spent
um along with the associated we saw a
bigger change in stories and as we look
at the actual quality of the feed and
the content being provided to um to
users we did see a drop there even
though we didn't see a large-scale
change in content production
that's that's correct yeah absolutely
right so it sounds as if um
maybe then these higher content
producers so they're large con you
mentioned that the accounts that we saw
a drop in content production were all
large accounts of a lot of followers
um a lot of Engagement typically
that's correct yep okay so it sounds as
if to me something
there's something around the change in
content production across these creators
uh and that is causing a kind of
outsized impact across people's the
quality of people's feet so you know
Beyonce or Kylie Jenner or someone large
even though they only produce but so
much content out of the total ecosystem
uh it sounds like they we saw a drop in
production there and that seems to have
a kind of effect on people's qual the
quality of people's feet on average
since so many people subscribe to these
users
yes I think I think that's a I think you
made a very uh very accurate conclusion
there yep okay so looking at the
conclusion it sounds as if that
um we need to uh dive deeper to
understand kind of what what caused
these content creators to stop producing
content uh whether it's
um uh and see if we can kind of
re-engage them or bring them back to the
platform uh are there other teams that
we can either you know either a customer
support team have we seen anything come
in from these large content creators any
complaints or have we seen any anything
unusual about these accounts in
particular compared to the the vast
majority of um Instagram users
yes let's say that we talked to the
security team and they realized there'd
been a major targeted hack on on various
large influences Damien's thought
process was really well structured here
and used a messy framework to help
divide the root causes into three
possible buckets another framework that
could have been useful would have been
the five wise framework Damian asked all
the right questions and crucially knew
when to keep asking high-level questions
and when to double down and zoom in on
my response
[Music]
okay so looking into the problem looking
at how the
sorry this change propagated it sounds
like we saw a large drop in in
engagement
um a lot of this came through stories uh
we didn't see content production overall
change drastically on average but we did
see a lot of high influence accounts
drop and we found out now that this was
targeted so a lot of high influence
accounts with a lot of followers were
stopped from creating content production
because they were hacked or targeted
potentially by a competitor potentially
by you know foreign interest and as a
result that lack of high quality content
that is engaged and sought by a lot of
users caused a drop in the quality of
people's feed especially in stories
given how quickly they're produced and
shown but had Ripple effects and brought
down time spent kind of across the board
because users got a lower quality feed
and therefore hurt our related
engagement measurements because users
found less high quality content to
engage with and therefore spent less
time on the Instagram platform that
um
sounds does that sound uh like a a good
conclusion and something that we could
take to leadership and really explain
and show that we have a plan of action
yeah I think that sounds like a a really
good conclusion I think uh yeah you've
asked all the right questions and
managed to um manage to yeah get to uh
get to a very accurate picture of of
what what had in mind there in your
conclusion you should try to take all
the information you've gathered and play
it back to the interviewer in a concise
way as Damian does here once you've done
that you should be able to succinctly
State your plan of action moving forward
Damien does all this and also
demonstrates a good understanding of the
relationship between content consumption
and content production which was crucial
in this particular question
okay well um I think we can wrap the
interview up there
um it's a really good answer I think uh
I think you asked all the right
questions and
um yeah it was fun getting to the bottom
of that um mysterious metric change
this was a very strong answer from
Damien showing a well-structured thought
process dividing his root causes into
three buckets he drew logical
conclusions after going through each
rather than waiting for the end of the
interview this enabled them to progress
through the question in a methodical
manner instructing his conclusions in a
logical Arc by building one on top of
the other you'll have noticed that
Damien asked a lot of questions and
that's fine in this kind of interview
don't be afraid to ask even more than he
did if you need to overall a really
comprehensive approach from Damien very
well executed
so um yeah thanks Damon hope you enjoyed
it
no I definitely did it was um
interesting to think about uh kind of
how uh the a change across a small
influential group can have this kind of
ripple effect across the entire
ecosystem but um we appreciate the time
and uh hopefully my answer I was able to
answer and address all of your questions
and we'll be able to move forward it
better
hello I really hope you found that
useful if you did you can like And
subscribe and why not come visit us at
igottenoffer.com there you can find more
videos useful Frameworks and question
guides all completely free and you can
also book expert feedback one-to-one
with our coaches from Google meta Amazon
Etc thank you and good luck with your
interview
[Music]